---
path: '/the-journal/backpacking-asia-2020-plan'
cover: './pic3.jpg'
date: '2018-10-15'
title: 'Travelling Asia 2020 - The Plan'
lang: 'en-gb'
published: true
category: ['Destination']
tags: ['Entertaiment', 'Journal', 'Inspire', 'Inform', 'Colaborate']
---

There is less than a month left till the day of our departure and I’ve decided to document our plan to be able to come back and laugh at how naive we were.

We got this idea after our wedding last year, almost 6 months ago. We wanted to make a change in our lives, either go travelling for some time, move out of the UK, or we even considered starting the process to buy a house. I think it doesn’t come as a surprise to anyone that we’ve decided to go with the first option and go travelling! To make sure it was going to happen we decided to buy a one way ticket anywhere in Asia, and then plan an itinerary from that starting point. In the end we bought a return ticket to Hong Kong, as it was cheaper than the one way ticket haha. Departure date is 03.02.2020, so less than a month away from the moment I am writing this, and we will most probably return on 04.05.2020 - which gives us 3 months to explore 7 countries!

The countries on our list are, in this order: Philippines, China, Vietnam, Cambodia, Thailand, Japan and Hong Kong. I think it’s safe to say we’re both most excited about China because we saw many photos of some spectacular landscapes all around the country. The funny thing is that I never even thought about visiting China, apart from the Forbidden City and the Great Wall maybe, until some months ago when I saw some Instagram photos. Until then, the place has only been advertised to me as a communist, over-crowded country where people shout and spit on the street (mainly from Japan and Hong Kong people lol) so China wasn’t at the top of my travel list.

However we’re looking forward to all places we are going to visit, we spent absolute ages trying to pick the countries to go to; one of the most important things for us was to have a good mix of everything: I get bored quite easily and I don’t think I would enjoy spending 3 months only on sandy beaches or visiting temples.

What do we expect right now:

stunning beaches and water adventures in Philippines. We plan to spend 3 weeks in the Philippines, between Palawan and Cebu, and visit: El Nido & Coron, Kawasan Falls, swim with the whale sharks in Oslob, Siquijor and the waterfalls on the island, Bohol and the Chocolate Hills. If we’re to be honest, what I’m a tiny bit worried about in the Philippines is that we will need to move around a lot and I do not know what to expect from their means of transportation, if there are any?!

absolutely mad experience in China and out of this world views. As I was saying, we’re both most excited about China. I’m also very anxious about this trip, as I know the language barrier and the cultural shock will be REAL, and knowing what I eat and my personal space will become a luxury. However, our itinerary is so good: we fly from the Philippines to Shenzhen and explore the city for a few days. From there, we will take the high speed train and spend several days exploring Guilin and Yangshuo, take a cruise on the Li River and visit Fenghuang and Furongzhen. We’ll then visit the Zhangjiajie National Forest Park, which is a truly unique place in the world due to the giant sandstone pinnacles that rise skyward from the valley, known around the world as the Avatar Mountains. We’ll finish the trip in Chengdu, where we’ll visit the Giant Panda Research Base (they also have red pandas - they look more like racoons but they are incredibly cute as well), enjoy the city vibe and the culinary scene, stuffing our faces with hot pots and dim sum.

great cultural experience and authentic cuisine in Vietnam, Vietnam is probably going to be the place that will surprise us the most, just because we have exactly zero expectations. From friends who’ve been there before, we’ve heard only very, very good things about the landscapes, the cities, the people and the food so we know we will have a fantastic time. What precisely we’ll do there is still to be discovered. In my life, I heard Vietnam mentioned a lot, but it was mainly associated with the war, so that’s why (along with my own ignorance) it didn’t really spark an urge to travel there before. From Chengdu, we’re flying to Hanoi, in the north of Vietnam and making our way to Ho Chi Minh City in the South. We’ll go to see the famous HaLong Bay and the super instafamous Golden Bridge in Da Nang, but we’ll make a more detailed route closer to the date.

From HCMC we’ll take a night bus and travel to Cambodia just for a few days. We need to see Angkor Wat as I came across the temple nominated as the first must-see place in the world in many travelling books. Its story is nevertheless impressive. There are many legends about how the world’s largest religious site was built, however we seem to know for sure that it was built in just 30 years (for comparison, La Sagrada Familia is taking 150 years to build) and it was dedicated to Vishnu, one of the three Hindu deities (Brahma, Vishnu and Shiva). Angkor Wat translates as “the City of Temples” and the complex consists of 72 major temples, along hundreds of minor ruined ones, and it covers 162.6 hectares.

Killing Fields outside Phnom Penh is another place on Cambodia’s to see list. As every history story begins, following the turbulent times during the Cambodian Civil war, people were promised peace and a bright future by the Khmer Rouge communist party. However, under the leadership of Pol Pot, all their possessions were confiscated and people were forced to work the land under terrible conditions. Those who were suspected of rebellion against the regime were sent to the Killing Fields, where guides explain that bullets were too precious to waste on executions: axes, knives and bamboo sticks were far more common. As for children, they simply smashed their heads against trees. It is said that more than two million people died though torture, execution, starvation and disease during the Khmer Rouge reign between 1975 to 1979, in what is known the ‘Cambodian genocide’. This represented a quarter of Cambodia’s population back then!

While everyone has heard about The Holocaust, I have never heard about this atrocity until one or two years ago, and that was when my former manager was telling me about his travel experience while in Cambodia (travel people rock). I’ve never been very passionate about history or even geography, but I feel like we should have definitely studied more in school about Asia, Africa and in general about other developing countries.

Even though I know the Killing Fields will be a very uncomfortable visit, I know it will really put things into perspective and it will bring to surface feelings of compassion and help me fight against some of my self-centered behaviour and thinking. Also, I think on a much bigger scale, it is good for all of us to be aware of these things so we can do our best to prevent them from ever happening again in the future. Most of us tend to think the horrible things happened in history centuries ago, and we’re safe, but first of all, that’s a very privileged mindset and in 1975, when this genocide took place, my parents were already in school! That’s not long ago at all!

From Cambodia, our plan gets more relaxed and we’re not entirely sure what we’ll do. The most likely scenario is to go for several days to Thailand to celebrate Songkran; being in Thailand for their New Year, when the whole country turns into a huge water fight, has been a really big thing on my bucket list ever since I’ve heard about it. That is scheduled to happen between 13-17th April so as long as we can synchronize our travels, we’ll try to be there.

Next on our list is Japan. Having previously lived in Tokyo in 2015, on my study abroad year, I miss it dearly. Another reason is that I think Dragos would adore it. He loves big city lights as much as I do and he loves geeky things and weird food combinations; I’m sure Japan will become his favourite place the minute he sets foot in Shibuya, Akihabara, an authentic ramen shop or a kaiten sushi restaurant. We haven’t decided how long we will spend in Japan and if we’ll just see Tokyo or go to see Kyoto, Osaka, Nara and all the other beautiful places in Japan - this depends entirely on our budget and how much money (if any) we’ll have left at the end of the trip.

Our trip will end in Hong Kong - I want to hike up Victoria Peak and immerse myself into Hong Kong’s famous food culture - I only hope our budget will allow that. Plus our return ticket to London is from Hong Kong, so that’s quite a good reason, innit?!

Some other countries we have considered and we really want to come back and visit later are: Indonesia of course (Bali - Nusa Penida; Komodo Island; Java - Borobudur, hiking volcanoes eg. Ijen, Malang Rainbow Village; Sumatra), but we decided to pair this one with Singapore (Gardens by the Bay; Marina Bay; Marina Bay Sands), Australia, Malaysia (Petronas Towers & Batu Caves in Kuala Lumpur; Gunung Mulu National Park; Langkawi Island)
and New Zealand. Basically, we got our next travel plan right here.

Laos (Kuang Si Falls; The Gibbon Experience), Myanmar (Inle Lake; Bagan; Hsinbyume Pagoda), Taiwan (Taipei 101) and South Korea (Seoul, Jeju island, Busan) are also countries we considered thoroughly; Laos and Myanmar are some of the cheapest countries in SE Asia, they’re filled with beautiful landscapes, lots of temples and history; they’re also extremely popular among backpackers so we would meet a lot of like minded people. However, the Myanmar visa is teeny pricey at 50\$ per person. Taiwan and South Korea have very convenient geographical positions for our itineraries. We hope maybe we can fit at least one of these countries between Cambodia and Thailand, or Thailand and Japan, but we will see if we have any time or money left.

That’s our plan for now, I wonder what places will meet our expectations, which country will be our favourite and why and how things are going to change! One thing is sure, we cannot wait!!
